 Harvey Weinstein appeals against conviction for sex crimes

5 April 2021

 Lawyers for disgraced US film producer Harvey Weinstein have launched an
appeal against his conviction for rape and sexual assault.

Weinstein, 69, was convicted in New York City in February 2020 and later
sentenced to 23 years in prison.

It was seen as a landmark moment in the MeToo movement against the sexual
abuse and harassment of women.

Weinstein, formerly one of Hollywood's most powerful figures, has consistently
denied any wrongdoing.

He has vowed to clear his name. Filed in New York State Supreme Court, the
long-anticipated appeal signals the start of what is expected to be a lengthy
attempt to have his conviction quashed.

His lawyers argue that the judge made several errors that denied Weinstein's
right to a fair trial.

"With a year behind us and emotions subsided, the transcript of the case
confirms what we always believed: that Mr Weinstein did not receive a fair
trial," one of Weinstein's lawyers, Arthur Aidala, said in a statement sent to
the BBC on Monday.

Dozens of women have come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct,
including rape, against Weinstein, an Oscar-winning producer.

Weinstein faces further criminal charges, for rape and sexual assault, in Los
Angeles, California, where he is due to stand trial.

He is currently being held in a maximum-security prison in New York state. He
had heart surgery after his February 2020 conviction and tested positive for
coronavirus a month later while in jail.

 What was Weinstein convicted of?

Weinstein faced five charges in the New York City trial but was only found
guilty of two.

The first was a first-degree criminal sexual act against production assistant
Miriam Haley in 2006. The second was a third-degree rape of aspiring actress
Jessica Mann in 2013.

New York jurors acquitted him of the most serious charges, of predatory sexual
assault, which could have seen him given an even longer jail term.



 To play this content, please enable JavaScript, or try a different
browser

,

Reaction to the court's decision to sentence Harvey Weinstein to 23 years in
jail file image from 24 February 2020

Weinstein he did not testify to defend himself in court. But moments before he
was sentenced, he read out a statement in which he expressed "deep remorse"
but described himself as "totally confused" by the MeToo movement.

Outside court, Ms Haley said the assault had "scarred me deeply, mentally and
emotionally".

"What he did not only stripped me of my dignity as a human being and a woman,
but it crushed my confidence," she said.

 What does the appeal say?

In a 166-page brief, Weinstein's lawyers raise seven examples of "errors"
that, in their view, compromised the fairness of the trial.

In one argument, the lawyers say the trial was "tainted by a single juror who
demonstrated a strong and disqualifying bias in favour of the prosecution".
That juror, they say, was writing an autobiographical book about the sexual
harassment of younger women by older men.

Another argument says the testimony of women whose sexual allegations were not
the subject of the criminal charges unfairly influenced the jury. Jurors heard
testimony from the actress Annabella Sciorra, who accused Weinstein of raping
her in 1993.

Weinstein was not charged with raping Sciorra, but prosecutors used her
testimony to support their argument that he was a sexual predator.

,

A sketch of Weinstein during his sentencing

A third argument says defence experts were improperly barred from rebutting
the testimony of the prosecution's witnesses.

"We will argue that the trial judge disregarded well accepted and fundamental
principles of New York law and violated Mr Weinstein's constitutional rights,"
Weinstein's lawyer, Mr Aidala, said. "We have the utmost confidence that the
Appellate Division will correct these mistakes and send this case back before
a different judge."

Now the appeal has been submitted, prosecutors will have a chance to respond
before a judge assesses the arguments and makes a decision.

